Hello.
Just a quickie here.
We're going to be setting up a canvas with a canvas group to allow us to fade in and fade out.
It's just the initial setup says very quickly.
Dive on.
So we'd like to be able to fade out and fade back in.
And the best way I've found of doing this is via the unity canvas UI system.
So what I'm going to do is under the core game objects because I'm gonna want this Fader set up in all
of ours all of our sandboxes.
I'm going to create a UI object called Canvas and I'm going to side stick that in court and go and call
automatically and I'm gonna rename it to fader.
And the idea here is that within this canvas we could add a text UI for example here some text UI.
But how do we make it fade out.
How do we make the contents of the canvas fade out.
Well the way to do this is to add a component called a canvas group and the canvas group does a few
things but mainly it allows us to change some properties for the things underneath this game object
in the canvas.
And one of these properties is the alpha.
So if I change the alpha value it goes from 0 to 1.
You can see the text there is fading out.
So my challenge to you mini challenge I'm not gonna put up a slide here is just to make it so it fades
in and out from black or white whichever way you want until it's completely transparent.
And just so that fades out by using the alpha value.
No clever code just yet.
So pause video and have a go.
OK.
Welcome back.
So the way you could do this you could create another game object underneath a fader.
I'm just gonna add a component directly on here can add an image component and then I'm gonna configure
that image component which at the moment there's no source image I'm just gonna use a color.
I'm going to fade.
Let's see.
I think I'll fade to white.
I think I like the effect of fade to white.
I've tried that already and ah but you can choose fade to black.
You could fight agreed if green if you like to we could even use an image like a little loading screen
or something like that.
So I'm going to show you that.
Now if I alter the alpha at Alpha 1 it is not transparent at all and we fade out to white and Alpha
Zero.
It's completely faded so we can go this do this fading thing.
That's it for this lecture.
I just wanted to set up that.
And then in the next lecture we're gonna look at scripts to control it.